---
title: Supported Devices and Platforms
path: overview/platforms
---

# Introduction

This document describes the platforms and devices supported by the Massivision MDK. Due to the reach
of the Haxe language and the flexibility of the MDK tool chain, this is by no means an exhaustive
list. Adding support for new devices is generally straightforward; the following describes devices
which we actively test and support through a profile and device API integration.

The Haxe programming language compiles to JavaScript, Flash (AVM1/2), C++, C#, Java, PHP, Neko and
AS3 source code and it it very straight forward to work with existing libraries on all those
platforms. This means that, even where the MDK does not explicitly support a device or platform,
support for any of those run times means some level of code re-use will possible.

The Massivision MDK officially targets C++/GL, JavaScript/HTML and Flash (AVM2).


# C++ and OpenGL

The MDK leverages the NME to reach a wide variety of devices and platforms. Applications are
compiled to C++, and then to device binaries by existing device tool chains. The display layer is
implemented in either GL or a software fall back provided by SDL.

The of devices and platforms supported by NME is [substantial](nme-support). The Massivision MDK can
potentially reach the same range of devices, but is only actively tested on:

* Windows Vista, Windows 7
* OS X 10.6+
* iOS 3.1+ (iPhone 3G+, iPad 2+)
* Android 2.1+ (Samsung S2, Motorola Xoom, Nexus 7)


# JavaScript and HTML

While the JavaScript generated by the MDK runs in all modern browsers, some UI display capabilities
are designed to work with specific browsers – both desktop and embedded device browsers.

The MDK is tested in the following browsers:

* Google Chrome 1+
* Safari 2.0.2+
* Mozilla Firefox 3+
* Internet Explorer 9+

The MDK also provides specific JavaScript support for these devices:

* Samsung SmartTV
* LG NetCast
* PS3 WebMAF
* Freesat

## Internet Explorer

The minimum version of Internet Explorer currently supported by the MDK is Internet Explorer 9.0.

* IE 8 does not support css3 colors, standard event model, document.innerWidth, or border radius.
* IE 9 does not support request animation frame but this can be polyfilled using window setTimeout.

> Note: CSS gradients are not currently supported in IE 9, but limited support could potentially be 
> added in the future with either filter or svg work arounds

[source](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3934693/gradients-in-internet-explorer-9)

## Desktop Browsers

Desktop browsers are frequently updated by users (automatically in the case of Firefox and Chrome, 
and as part of OS updates with Safari).

| Minimum Version    | Estimated market share |
|------------------- | --------------------- :|
| Firefox 5.0+       |                   ~20% |
| Chrome 10.0+       |                   ~40% |
| Safari 5.1+        |                    ~5% |
| Opera 11.6+        |                    ~2% |

[source](http://gs.statcounter.com/#browser_version_partially_combined-ww-monthly-201206-201306)

## Mobile Browsers

Mobile browsers generally have good standards support and are frequently updated (as they are 
generally tied to OS updates).

| Minimum Version    | Estimated market share |
|------------------- | --------------------- :|
| Mobile Safari 5.0+ |                   ~20% |
| Android WebKit 4.0 |                   ~30% |
| BlackBerry 10.0    |                    ~3% |

## Feautre Breakdown

Below is a table of CSS and JS features leveraged by the MDK and the minimum browser versions that 
support them (on both desktop and mobile). While many features of the MDK will function normally 
below these versions, it is a useful reference when choosing minimum supported versions.

|                        | IE    | Firefox | Chrome | Safari | Opera | iOS | Android | BlackBerry |
| ---------------------- | ----- | ------- | ------ | ------ | ----- | --- | ------- | ---------- |
| borderRadius           | 9.0   | 4.0     | 5.0    | 5.0    | 10.5  | 4.1 | 2.2     | 7.0        |
| requestAnimationFrame  | 10.0  | 4.0     | 10.0   | 6.0    | 15.0  | 6.0 | x       | 10.0       |
| css3 colors            | 9.0   | 3.0     | 4.0    | 3.1    | 10.0  | 3.2 | 2.1     | 7.0        |
| borderImage            | 11.0  | 15.0    | 15.0   | 6.0    | 15.0  | 6.0 | 4.2     | 10.0       |
| opacity                | 9.0   | 2.0     | 4.0    | 3.1    | 9.0   | 3.2 | 2.1     | 7.0        |
| transform2d            | 9.0   | 3.5     | 4.0    | 3.1    | 10.5  | 3.2 | 2.1     | 7.0        |
| user select            | 10.0  | 2.0     | 6.0    | 3.1    | 15.0  | 3.2 | 2.1     | 7.0        |


# Flash Player

The MDK targets Flash Player 10+ (AVM2) with some additional support available for minor release
features (full screen video in 10.1, for example). It is also possible to target Adobe Air, although
we do not actively test support for packaged "native" applications (for iOS/Android).

The MDK also provides specific Flash support for these devices

* YouView
* Nintendo Wii


# Road map

There are plans to support Java for Android, C# for Windows 8, Windows Phone and XBox, and WebGL for 
HTML/JavaScript applications. For more information see the [MDK road map](sdk-roadmap).

[nme-support]: http://www.nme.io/developers/documentation/devices
[sdk-roadmap]: roadmap.md
